As I think I've noted in an earlier essay or two [1], the College has both a moral and a legal responsibility to ensure that the materials we produce are accessible [2].  One of the easier ways to ensure accessibility is to caption videos.  Good captioning is helpful, and even provides a form of universal design in that it can help people who may have trouble with accents, or want to search or whatever.  I care about captioning, in part, because I am gradually losing hearing.  I can still hear, but I clearly can't hear as much or as well as I used to [3].  I also care about captioning because I think it makes videos more usable; some of my early attempts to do  work in multimedia was thinking about how such captioning would help students search video lectures [4]. I also know that the Justice Department has been starting to target colleges and universities who are not careful in their captioning. Harvard, for example, got in trouble because one of their EdX MOOCs was not correctly captioned.  That's not to say that it wasn't caption. Rather, they'd relied on software (or perhaps unsupervised Amazon Turks), so the written words were not always appropriate approximations of the spoken text. Captioning also strikes me as a comparatively easy and straightforward first step in working toward accessibility.  It's certainly easier than, say, thinking about how you are going to make an interactive data graphic accessible.   For all of these reasons, I tend to get frustrated when I see the College fail to caption videos appropriately.  Let's consider an example. Ana Karin Kozjek '17 [5] was just designated Midwest Conference Women's  Swimmer of the Week [6], and we've released an interview video. Let's compare what Ana and her interviewer, Ted Schultz, actually said to what appears when you view captions in the video. Here's my attempt to transcribe the four-minute video.     TS: Hi there I'm there with Ana Karin Kozjek.  She is a Grinnell College Women's Swimming Swimmer, and this week was named Midwest Conference Swimming and Diving Performer of the Week.  Congratulations. AKK: Thank you. TS: Well tell me a little about your week.  We were at the Grinnell Mini-Invitational and you won four events.  A very busy day for you: Three individuals and a relay.  Talk about your performance. AKK: Yeah, it was a very challenging week overall because I decided to swim some of the most challenging performances from the races that I swim often and that are like very high pressure for me.  And one after another was challenging.  But [indecipherable] and it was a great practice. TS: Well, you had a great career here.  Talk about some of the highlights for your during your career here. AKK: Highlights.  Every conference, every single year.  It's not just  swimming.  It's so much more.  The emotions, the team.  They are like the highlights. TS: This season's been wonderful.  Talk about how the season so far, how it's has gone. AKK: The season; it's been great.  Yeah, I'm very happy about how it went. I worked harder then last season because I was here all season.  Last year, I was studying abroad as well, so that made a big difference.  So, yeah.  I feel pretty prepared.  I feel that the team is getting healthy.   TS: [Laughs.] AKK: We had a bit of a mysterious disease episode, but now we're getting back into the groove.  So, yeah, I think we're going to finish strong? TS: Were you one of the ones affected by that disease? AKK: Slightly. TS: Slightly. AKK: Um, Yeah. TS: Now, you had the opportunity to go to the Olympic games this year. Talk about that and how/why you were down there and what not. AKK: So, my mom is the team doctor for my national team, the Slovenian team.  And we went there; I went there because of her mostly.  It's not very often that I get to see her.  So that was beautiful.  I was also spending my whole summer in South America.  So that was just one of the stops.  And it was just a amazing, amazing thing to see.  To see the whole background that's going on besides the Olympic show.   TS: Uh huh. AKK: I saw the life of people, like in favelas and everything.  It's a great opportunity to see, like everything beside the show. TS: You also had a teammate swimming there. AKK: Yes.  Yeah. Josh.  Of course. TS: Yeah, yeah. AKK: He gets so annoyed.  He's going to get so annoyed by mentioning him. TS: [Laughs] AKK: But, yeah, it was great to see him.  It was great to see Tim [Hammond], the coach.  And we went together to see the Christ the Redeemer. It was just such an adventure.  And seeing everyone coming together: My my mom  and coach and teammate.  It was just magical. TS: A great chance to do a lot of great things. AKK: Yeah. TS: So you have the conference meet coming up in a little over a week. Talk about your expectations there. AKK: Well, I want to have no regrets.  It's my last meet,  probably.  I'm going to finish my career after that.  So I want just want to go in, swim the best I can, have fun, have a lot of fun, make memories, support the whole team.  We're going for the win again.  I think we  can do it, honestly.  I hope all the best. TS: Oh absolutely.  What's your major, and what do you plan to do with it? AKK: I'm a Biological Chemistry major with a Neuroscience concentration. And this week, I have just submitted my application for studying medicine back home in Slovenia.  So that's pretty much determined.  I'm going to go back.  And, yeah, I'm excited for everything.  I had an amazing four years here, but I'm ready for a new adventure. TS: Absolutely.  Well again, Anna, thank you so very much.  It's been fun watching you over these years, and looking forward to a big conference meet. AKK: Thank you. TS: Thank you. That took me thirty minutes, but I don't have the normal accessories for pausing and rewinding, so I was just bouncing between windows on my Mac.  I should also add time codes, but this is just intended as an example.   Now, let's see what you get when you choose closed captioning on the video.   hi there i'm hearing Dominic Greene  project she is a Grinnell College  women's swimming swimmer and this week  would mean the Midwest Conference  swimming and diving performer of the  week congratulations  well tell me a little bit about your  week we're at the Grinnell indicate many  invitational and you want for advanced  very busy day for you three individuals  and really talk about your performance  yeah it was about challenging overall  because I decided to send some emotional  performances that I come to you today  some often and I create high pressure  for me and being sworn at writer was  challenging but we have much planned  with a great suspected you had a great  career talk about some of the highlights  for you during your career highlights  every continent anything little here  just like it's not just swimming so much  more the emotion the team like the head  are this season's been wonderful talk  about the season so far how it's gone  even speeding been great  yeah i'm very happy about her client i  work hard lesson because I will help  people maybe last year was studying  abroad as well will limit the difference  yeah i feel asleep back i feel that team  is getting healthy we had a bit of a  mystery is anything but now we're  getting that you should do groups oh  yeah okay with a very strong we want the  ones affected by that disease slightly  slightly now you have the opportunity to  go to the olympic games this year talk  about that man how you why you were down  there and whatnot so my mom's opinion  doctor for national teams DNT and we  learned their I window because the  policy  and I'm tired because it's not very  often that against her  so that was beautiful eligible  suspending my house on Sunday Micah but  i'll just one of the stuff and we're  just amazing amazing thing to see the  whole playground it's going on besides  biggest the Olympic show you like the  life of people like in formulas and  everything it's a great opportunity like  everything like that show you also the  teammate swimming there  yes yeah Joshua voice yeah yeah he gets  so I know he's going to be annoyed by  mentioning here but what do I was going  to see have to pretend to coach  yes and we went together to see the  christ the redeemer was just such an  adventure of seeing everybody coming  together and my mom and college  teammates it is just magical a great  chance to do a lot of great things and  not that's so you have the conference  meet coming little over week talk  about your expectations there  well I want to have my breasts  it's my less we probably i'm going to be  significantly after da so just want to  go in the Mexican have fun have a lot of  fun my family support to help you  yeah we're going for the win again and I  think we can do it honestly I hope all  of us  oh absolutely with your major what  you plan to do with it  I'm special country major in your  science communication and this week I  had to submitted my application for  studying medicine that comment yes  so that's pretty much determined so i'm  going to go back and yeah I'm excited  but everything i had amazing four years  here they're ready for new adventures  absolutely  well again Donna thank you so  very much it's been a fun watching you  over these years and looking forward to  a big conference meet thank you thank  you "Yeah, no", as my students say.  I don't think anyone who relied only on the "transcription" would have any idea what was being discussed. I'm also pretty sure that no one even looked at the captions, or they wouldn't have allowed the transcription to include a reference to body parts (a bit before the strange reference to "Mexican").  That strikes me as failing in our responsibilities, not only to those who might want to watch/read the video, but also to Ana. I've done my best to do my part.  I complained when they posted it on  Twitter.  I sent email to the AD, the College Webmaster, the College Associate Dean for Disability Services, and our Social Media Specialist [7]. I've posted this essay.  And I transcribed the video and added it to the Facebook page.  I hope that incentivizes whoever does the video postings for athletics to do the same. One of my readers asked if I chose Ana for this essay because she is an international student.  I did not.  It's just that I got the  video on my Twitter feed, and since she's a friend and teammate of my kids, I thought I'd watch it.  I put captions on because I like to watch videos with captions. Does Ana's accent make it harder for the captioning software?  Possibly. Does that matter?  No.  We shouldn't be relying on software.  Note that the captioning software has trouble with people who speak as clearly as Ted Schultz, too.  Check out the introduction to the interview with a male swimmer.   hi there i'm here with [STUDENT NAME] he is a criminal [8] We should be taking the time to do the captioning ourselves. [1] Or three or more. [2] I think there are cases in which the burden of accessibility is so high that it's reasonable to provide alternatives. [3] I tend to blame it on the Go-Go's concert I saw in Grant Park when I was about nineteen, and I stood next to the tall towers of speakers right next to the stage. [4] I think that ended up as a discarded "work in progress". [5] Ana continues our series of awesomely talented students from Slovenia. Given our track record, we should find ways to attract more Slovenians. [6] She's received this honor in the past, too. [7] Only our Social Media Specialist replied quickly, and she noted that she was not charged with anything having to do with those videos. [8] I've elided the student name so that a Web search doesn't bring up that phrase.