I have now completed eleven months of daily musings [1,2].  At the end of each month, I like to step back and reflect upon what I've learned, or have not learned, in the month of writing.  Early on, I found myself reflecting on what I had learned about writing and about how my writing was changing.  At this point, I find that my writing style has reached a somewhat fixed point.  I don't seem to be evolving much as a writer. Is that okay?  I'm still not sure.  I'd like to become a better writer. But I also enjoy writing for the sake of writing. This past month I've had difficulty keeping up with daily essays. In part, it was that I was out of town and busy for ten days.  But I also have a very different rhythm to my life in the summer.  I work as much during the day, but I don't tend to work at night.  So, while the daily musing was a good way to break from work in the evening, it seems like a less good way to break from whatever I"m doing most evenings (reading books, playing with my family, watching silly TV series with my family, whatever).   Nonetheless, I consider it important to write daily.  So I really do need to find a way to incorporate these musings in my daily routine. I also have a fairly large backlog of things to muse about.  Perhaps I'll write them in the morning, rather than at night.  Perhaps I'll find a time during the day that I want to take a break.  We'll see. But I've missed a lot of musings this past month [5].  Perhaps I'll try doing two musings per day until I catch up.  Or perhaps not. What will I muse about this month?  Each month, I say that I should write more profiles.  Perhaps I will find a way to do so this month.  I also need to write the daily readings and labs for CSC 151.  Will the drafts of those make good musings?  We will see.  There are also a few series that I should continue, including notes on my tastes in music and comments on CS principles.  I've also promised to start a series on our summer code camps. I also seemed to have trouble keeping up with the indexing.  As I  was putting this reflection together, I realized that I had never indexed musings 348 and 349.  I've now rectified that situation [6]. As I say each month, stay tuned! [1] Well, eleven months and a few days, since I'm posting this late. [2] I'm using a variety of counting schemes.  I number each essay I post in order.  But there are days I post two [3] musings and there are days in which I forget to post a musing.  At the end of each month, I post one of these reflections.  For anniversaries, I'm counting from when I restarted in September 1, 2016.  August 31, 2017 will be one year [4]. [3] Or more. [4] That counting assumes that I get back to posting daily musings. [5] I posted eighteen musings in June.  That means that I'm twelve musings behind. [6] I've also fixed some inconsistencies in the index by number.