I think I mentioned this topic in a previous essay and promised that I'd write about it soon.  To meet that promise, it seems like I should take it on now. Teachers screw up.  Okay, that's not necessarily true.  Some teachers screw up.  I certainly screw up.  I say things that sound horrible in retrospect.  I mispronounce names [1].  Once in a while, I get things wrong, and teach students something incorrect.  (Usually, I fix those screwups.)  And, while those situations are somewhat embarrassing, they are also part of the normal job. I have a fairly high threshold for embarrassment.  I wear a Tigger suit in class.  I joke about my weight and about my dad jokes [2]. I'm willing to spend class time on Friday talking about students drinking and being intimate. In spite of that, there are times I do things that are so embarrassing that they'll stick with me. In spite of my joke about it above, I hate that I mix up student names much too often.  I can distinguish my students (or at least I think I can, with the exception of a few sets of twins), but my brain sometimes pulls out the name of another student.  And, unfortunately, it seems to happen again and again with the same pairs of students.  I make jokes about it, but I get embarrassed. The event that sticks with me the most, though, happened early in the days of the Web.  It was early enough that Google was new [3].  One of the fun things you could do with Google at the time was type "More evil than Satan" and click "I feel lucky".  What do you think would happen? That's right, it would bring you to the Microsoft home page [4].  I thought I'd show that to my class.  And so, on the projection screen, I typed it out ... "More evil than Stan". What happens if you type that and click "I feel lucky"?  Yes, that's right, you are lucky enough to get the most common page on the Interweb: Porn.  On the big screen.  In front of your whole class.  That's not really very lucky, is it?  I guess I'm lucky that students knew it was an accident. So, that's probably my most embarrassing teaching moment.  I hope you found it funny. Unfortunately, I had a similar experience a month or so ago. I'm teaching an online class. We were having an online Skype session and talking about possible collaborative projects. I suggested that we try a form of "exquisite corpse".  Since they had not heard of that, I suggested that they look at the Wikipedia page.  I pasted in the URL.  Did you know that when you paste in a URL, Skype pulls up the first image on the page?  Did you know that the first image on the Wikipedia page for Exquisite corpse has a sketch of a naked woman's breasts? I know that nakedness is healthy and that we should embrace the human body, particularly in art.  I know that I shouldn't be embarrassed about bringing up such pictures in class.  But, when it happens accidentally, rather than purposefully [5], it is embarrassing. Will I continue to make mistakes in class?  Certainly.  Will I continue to mispronounce student names while I'm trying to learn them, and perhaps thereafter?  Certainly.  Will I continue to confuse student names?  I will try not to, but I'm getting older and my brain is slowly deteriorating. Will I inadvertently show porn in class again?  I really hope not.  Will I do something equally stupid and embarrassing.  Probably.  We'll see. If I'm still writing, I'll write about it. [1] Sometimes I mispronounce them enough that they sound like someone else's name. [2] Forthcoming essay! [3] Yes, there was a point in which Google was the new search engine in town.  At that point, most people used Alta Vista. [4] Yes, there was a point in which Microsoft was more evil than Google. [5] Have I purposefully shown pictures of naked people in class?  I don't think so, but I do have a slide show of artworks that I borrowed from a colleague in Studio Art, so perhaps I have.