As I age as a faculty member, I find that I am becoming involved in more fundraising activities for the College.  I do some informal fundraising with our alums to add to the department's Restricted Fund and Diversity Fund.  You've probably seen one of my thank you letters [1]. More recently, I've been asked to donate to the annual "Class Auction Fundraiser".  As I understand it, they have faculty members donate things that soon-to-be alums then bid on.  I'm told that this years donations created some bidding wars.  What did I donate?  I donated a copy of Experiments in Java, the lab manual I wrote a decade-and-a-half ago. I donated a set of Women in Computing cards [2].  And I donated a  Grinnell Flask [3]. I also encourage students and people I know to donate during the annual "Day of Giving" [4].  This year, Athletic Directory Andy Hamilton helped raise some funds by agreeing to dye his hair scarlet if a certain number of folks affiliated with athletics donated.   All of this got me thinking ... are there ways that I could participate more in these activities, and have fun with it.  Here's what I've come up with so far. For the annual one-day drive: The Rebelsky hair challenge.  If fifty  CS alums and fifty percent of CS majors donate to the College during the one-day drive, I will allow Jonathan Rebelsky to cut my hair and shave an Honor G into my head. For the class of 2018 auction: Musings.  Students can bid on the  opportunity to choose the subject for a musing. Hmmm ... I thought there were others when I sat down to write this musing, but I guess I'm feeling less creative than I thought I was. What do you think?  Are these good fun(d)raising activities?  What else should I think about?  And how to I fundraise for the department in addition to fundraising for the College? [1] That reminds me ... I owe some letters to our very generous donors. [2] Last summer, my research students tried to get rid of them when they cleaned out my lab. [3] It appears that the Grinnell bookstore has stopped selling the flasks, at least temporarily, which makes them a bit of a collectors item. [4] Or whatever they call it.