As you may recall, I've been using Grammarly on occasion to check over my musings.  I even went so far as to purchase the Premium version, only to find that I disagreed with some of its advice on repeated words and punctuation [1]. One interesting aspect of having a Grammarly account is that they send me a weekly report.  Let's look at the data from this week's report.   1229709 words checked.  You wrote more words than 99% of Grammarly  users did. Yes, I'm sure that I had actually written over one million words, I would have written more words than 99% of Grammarly users.  But I'm pretty sure that I wrote significantly fewer words.  It's just that with the letter to the incoming chair, it feels like I wrote over one million words.   1687 unique words used.  You have a larger vocabulary than 95% of  Grammarly users. Given that the first piece of data was wrong, should I trust this one? Let's see ... what did it say the prior weeks?  1985 unique words last week. 1606 about a month ago when I was using it more regularly. So, yes, that seems reasonable [2]. Does the number of words I use when writing indicate the size of my vocabulary?  I doing think so.  There are words in my vocabulary, like ennui and defenestrate, that I rarely, if ever, use in these musings [3]. But perhaps they've done careful studies about the ratio of words used in Grammarly-reviewed writing to actual vocabulary size [4].  It's a bit sad that 1700 or so words is a larger range than most of Grammarly writers use [5].  I wonder what that says about their user community? Dear Grammarly Developers: If you really want to provide data that I would use and perhaps even pay for, you might consider counting the number of snarky remarks I make.  [1] I don't disagree with the claim that some variety is good.  And I don't disagree with the claim that in the US, punctuation belongs inside quotation marks.  I do, however, disagree with the text and examples that they used to support those assertions. [2] It is a bit depressing to think that I used fewer than two-thousand unique words in writing over a million words.  Maybe Grammarly is right about repetition. [3] This may be the first time I've used "ennui".  Does anyone remember when I last used "defenestrate"? [4] No, I don't think so. [5] Grammarly says that I should write "1700 or so words are a larger group than ...".  That feels wrong to me.  Why?  There's an implicit "a group of 1700 or so words", which makes the subject singular.  I suppose it's unreasonable to expect their AI to make such fine  distinctions.