Each day, people ask me "How are you?"  It's a fairly normal greeting.  I ask others the same questions.  These days, I have a few answers I give, depending on my mood [1]. On some days, I say "I'm great!"  While that's generally not true, I do believe in positive psychology, so I expect that by saying it regularly, I make myself and those around me feel better.  When I say "I'm great!", I sometimes add some reasons: "I'm fortunate to have a wonderful wife, great children, students I enjoy teaching, and a meaningful job that pays me well.  I get to make a difference in people's lives.  I get to play with ideas.  What could be better?" In recent days, some people have chastised me for that response, at least the short version [2].  Why?  They suggest that it is inappropriate to be great in today's world.  They may be right.  So I've been saying "I'm great" less these days. On some days, I say "You don't want to know."  Most people accept that statement at face value [3].  Some push a bit.  In most cases, I then get to say "Well, I can't really tell you, either."  Why is that?  Well, days in which I'm really upset or frustrated usually involve confidential issues at work.  Perhaps I should work on my response.  Perhaps I should say "I'm in a bad mood, but I can't discuss why.  I hope you are doing better than I."  I'll think about that. On some days, I say "Old, fat, tired, and grumpy.  Normal."  All five are true.  A few people say, "I don't think of you as fat."  I wonder what they think of me, then, because I'm clinically obese.  Some say "You're not old."  To them, I respond "You're only as old as you feel, and I feel old."  No one says "I don't think of you as tired."  Why? Most people can tell that I'm tired most of the time.  A few say "You're not grumpy.  You're cheerful!"  Either (a) they don't read my essays or (b) they don't pay attention or (c) both. An amazing number laugh when I say "Old, fat, tired, and grumpy."  I'm never quite sure why.  Maybe they are just cruel.  But that's probably not the real issue.  Today, one of my colleagues said, "I laughed because it's unexpected; most people aren't honest when you ask them how they are." I suppose that's a more likely reason [4]. These days, I'm working on variations.  I feel older some days, tireder [5] some days, and grumpier some days [6].  So sometimes I rearrange the order. Sometimes I try synonyms, or at least similar words, such as "exhausted" instead of "tired" or "obese" instead of "fat" [7].  But "Old, fat, tired, and grumpy" feels right.  "Normal" as a follow-up comment feels even better. But, you know what, other than making people laugh and being true, "old, fat, tired, and grumpy" is probably not the best thing to say. I think I'll just go back to saying "Great" and working to make it true. p.s. In case you couldn't tell, tonight I was tired enough that I was not up to writing an extended essays.  But that's okay, I'm great. p.p.s. The Hemingway Editor says that this essay is readable by a third grader.  If you have one of those, please don't share it with them. p.p.p.s. Here's my new idea: I'm going to have this essay printed really small on business cards.  When people ask me how I am, I'll just hand them this essay [8]. [1] Or my muse. [2] Upon reflection, people have chastised me for saying the long version, too. [3] Or perhaps they ignore it; people generally don't pay that much attention to what you say when the ask "How are you?" [4] Is it really unexpected that I say "old, fat, tired, and grumpy"?  I say it a lot.  It's my normal state. [5] Okay, it's "more tired". [6] My weight is pretty constant, so I don't feel fatter.  Maybe sometime soon I'll feel thinner. [7] I've never said "Appropriately angry" instead of grumpy.  Maybe I should. [8] Yes, I realize that I am now rambling.  I did say that I'm tired.