Over the past two weeks, I have been writing a letter to the incoming chair of the CS department.  The letter is a "brain dump", of sorts, of the information that I keep track of related to my role of chair and of tasks that I need to complete.  Karla Erickson recommended that I write the letter as part of the transition.  If you have been reading the daily musings, you've likely seen most of the letter. I have now tied everything together into single letter.  It's long - more than thirty pages and over fourteen thousand words [1].  It should be shorter [2].  However, editing for length is not one of my best skills. I've also expended more than enough energy on the letter. What does it mean to "tie everything together into a single letter"? Let's see.  First, I joined all of the sections together.  I then incorporated the extra things I thought about after I'd posted sections. I rewrote parts of the introduction to better match the actual form of the letter.  Since some readers had commented on various personal  characteristics that come out in my writing, I added a note about those characteristics. I reread much of the letter, which naturally led to me adding more things. I also found that I wanted to rearrange the letter a bit.  I split off a section on divisional roles and responsibilities from the section on departmental roles and responsibilities.  I found that a useful way to reflect more carefully on those roles and responsibilities.  I also made a variety of small edits. Although I had first written that "[c]opying or summarizing the lists seems pointless", I realized that I derived some benefit from looking at those lists in an alternate form.  I added those lists as an appendix. I had elided some more confidential parts from the letter [3].  I created a second version in which I filled in the elided parts [4].  That caused a few more edits to both versions. I muse in Markdown.  I had to spend a little bit of time figuring out how to turn Markdown format documents into my standard memo format. But I have enough tools in place that the process was relatively straightforward. Because the document is so long and because you've seen most of it before, I will not include the text in this musing.  However, if you'd like to see the full letter, you can follow that link. On to the next project! [1] Concision is not one of my strengths. [2] Much shorter. [3] More precisely, I had written something like "[elided]" whenever I thought I might insert confidential information.  The elided information was in my mind, but not in the document. [4] Having two versions of a document is dangerous.  But I did not see a natural way to have both a public version and a full version.   I suppose I could use some markup that lets me transform the full version to the public version; that sounds like more work than it's worth for