Just a little housekeeping left in my letter to the incoming chair: dates, a manifest, a list things I forgot to include in the first round of writing, and perhaps a one-page summary. In this section, we consider some of the files that I've put in the  department folder. As you might guess, we naturally generate a variety of materials related to the department: proposals, memos, and such.  We also receive a lot of materials, such as end-of-course evaluations.  I find it useful to keep many such materials so that I can refer to them later.  I've done my best to arrange the materials into a department "folder".  This section serves as an approximate manifest of that folder.  If there are other materials you'd like, let me know and I'll see if I can dig them out from my electronic mail or elsewhere. Letter to Incoming Chair  This document.  CS Planning  An attempt to represent what will be happening in the department over the next decade or so.  Includes leave eligibility, expected years of leaves, expected chair, other events, and so on and so forth. 2014-15, 2015-16, 2016-17, and 2017-18  Some miscellaneous documents generated in or for each of those years. ACM IEEE Model Curriculum 2013  Materials from our curricular analysis for the ACM IEEE Model Curriculum. This includes the thousand-or-so learning outcomes that appear in that curriculum. Academic Equipment Requests  The academic equipment requests I've written during this term as chair. (Those are submitted via email, so I don't always get them back.) Budget  Our budget proposals for the past few years.  These include the spreadsheets and the explanatory documents. Course Proposals  Any documents of found related to course proposals.  These include some new course proposals and a variety of special topics courses. Data Buddies  Our reports from the Data Buddies project.  We should discuss these more. Department Chairs Info  At the fall Department Chairs Meeting, they give us a flash drive of information, most of which appears somewhere on GrinCo.  I've copied it into the department folder.  You can find both the Fall 2015 and Fall 2016 documents. Department Data (All Departments)  A copy of the data from https://grinco.sharepoint.com/sites/dean/Pages/DepartmentData.asp for viewing offline. Department Snapshots  Our department snapshots for the past few years.  Read more about them in the data section. EOCEs  End-of-course evaluations for all faculty in the department for the past decade or so. Fundraising  A few things I've created related to fundraising.  These include a few proposals for the capital campaign and my response to the request that we plan to spend half of our restricted fund. Misc. Data  Data that may be useful for the department that did not appear to deserve its own folder. Misc. Documents  All sorts of things.  The curricular diagram you created.  Our vulnerability report.  A signature form for our academic honesty statement.  And more! NDC Survey  My notes for the ACM NDC survey. Peer Educators  A variety of documents related to the peer educator program.  I think I got most of these from you. Pledge of the Computing Professional  A copy of the flash drive they send us with various materials. Research for All  Some of the documents I created along the way when dealing with the Research Opportunities for All initiative.  It looks like I may be missing a few documents, so I'll try to track those down before sending the folder to you. SEPC  Materials for dealing with the SEPC.  These include some instructions for doing reviews (copied with permission from History and modified) and a draft SEPC handbook. Schedule  Our schedules for the past few years. Scholarship Expectations  The department's "Scholarship Expectations" document of a decade or so ago, along with the memo that accompanied it. Staffing  All of the staffing proposals I've written in recent years. UIowa U2G  Documents and notes related to the program. I probably have some things elsewhere.  I'll send them to you as I find them.  As I said, if there are other kinds of information you think would be useful, let me know and I'll try to dig them out.