You may note that no musing appeared last night.  It's not that there weren't things for me to muse about.  There were.  It's not that I didn't have time to muse. I did, particularly given that I had one draft that was about 80% finished and another that was about 50% finished.  If I recall correctly, there was even a short one I was thinking about writing [1]. So, what was the problem?  It was both simple and complex. Friday was busy.  It started at 8 a.m. with a meeting with the high-school guidance counselor to discuss Youngest's schedule.  That schedule is complicated.  We'd been trying to figure out what College courses would work for him and what they'd conflict with.  It gets more complicated because of the wonder of the high-school schedule which relies on trimesters and which does not keep courses at the same time from trimester to trimester [2].  Since the College uses a semester system [3], College classes conflict with courses in two trimesters.  Since the high-school does not keep a consistent schedule, the conflicting courses switch. I hadn't realized that his high-school schedule was already posted, but we still needed to meet with the counselor to talk about implications and to see whether we could rearrange things [4]. Once I finished at the high school, I met with Middle and Michelle to  do some banking issues. And then I headed off to campus for Grinnell Science Project preparation. The GSP leadership team met from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.   At 4 p.m., I decided to attempt to straighten my lab a bit [5].  I gave up at 8 p.m. because my children were asking about dinner [6].  I know that I did a lot, but you can see very little evidence of changes in my lab. But I was out of energy and my kids were hungry, so I came home and made dinner. And then I sat down to muse.  I opened my bag and thought to myself, "Hmmm ... my computer's not where it's supposed to be."  I thought about it a bit more and wondered whether I put it in my bag when I finished with GSP or whether it might have fallen out in my lab or what.  If I was more paranoid, I would have gone back to campus to look for it. But I was exhausted, both physically and mentally, and it was unlikely to move from wherever it was by morning.  So I took it as a sign that I should instead go to bed early [7].  I think it was the right decision. Of course, that meant that I didn't get to the half-dozen other tasks that i was planning to do on the computer, but those might be able to wait a bit longer. Tonight I remembered the computer.  I'm hoping to muse quickly and then head to bed.  The tasks will wait for another day. [1] About the new name tag I received, if I recall correctly. [2] For example, Choir makes some strange switch, such as from first period  in the first trimester to the last period in the second trimester. [3] I would prefer ten-week quarters, but I seem fairly unique in that preference. [4] None of the shifts we came up with worked.  So Youngest gets to  contact a few of his teachers to see if they are okay with him missing parts of classes.  He also gets to talk to his coach about being late to practices and perhaps missing a meet. [5] I promised a friend that her daughter could "shop" in my office supply collection.  But that requires that the supplies be organized. [6] Whoops.  I wasn't really paying attention to the time. [7] Or at least comparatively easy.