Number two or so in my attempt to be more positive.  Number one in what I expect to be a series of thank-you notes. Today was not a good day.  (Yeah, that's a great way to start a positive essay.  Way to go, Sam!)  I was scheduled from 11am to 9pm. [1]  I planned the three hours in the morning for a bit of administrative work (say 8am to 9am) and two hours of class preparation or grading.  But there was enough administrative work that I ended up doing administrative work from 8am until 11am.  It wasn't even pleasant administrative work. If I spend three hours doing administrative work, and I'm booked the rest of the day, when am I supposed to get grading done?  When am I supposed to get class prep done? In addition, one of my online students dropped the course.  I hate losing students.  I hate not knowing why I lose students.  Am I doing a bad job? (That's usually my assumption.)  Or is it that the class isn't what they were expecting, or too much work, or ....? Of course, a student dropping reinforced my frustration at not getting grading and class prep done. TO make matters worse, I lost my temper last night.  I hate losing my temper.  I also spent much of the morning feeling like I was going to lose my temper at the stupid administrative issues.  I hate feeling that way.  I really hate feeling that way. So it was not a good morning. Right before 4:00 p.m., I headed off to my 4:00 p.m. meeting.  I was halfway to the traditional meeting place before I realized that the meeting had  been moved somewhere else, and I had no idea where.  A quick check on my computer, and I found it had moved to the JRC [2], on the other side of campus. (Not that campus is that large, but ....)   So I walked into the JRC at 4:05 p.m., frustrated that I was going to be late to the meeting, frustrated that my morning permitted no class prep time, frustrated that a student had dropped.  As I walked by the JRC welcome desk, the person there said something to me like "I appreciate that you always seem so happy when you walk by." I had not known that I always seem happy.  But I usually see students I know and like [3] in the JRC, so maybe I just smile more there.  And the comment reminded me that in spite of the frustrations, there are so many things I appreciate. So thank you unnamed JRC welcome desk staff person.  You made my day so much better.  I wish I knew your name, and I apologize for not knowing. My day also got better after that. So thank you Sarah Purcell for inviting me to a nice dinner with the Rosenfield speakers. And thank you beloved wife for taking my place at the evening theatre meeting, which allowed me to get a bit more work done. [1] Convocation at 11am.  Meeting with SEPC at noon.  Class pep at 1pm. Class 2-4pm.  Wilson Committee at 4pm.  Reception and Dinner with Rosenfield speakers at 5:30 p.m.  Play parents meeting at 7:00 p.m. Skype session with my online class at 8:30 p.m. [2] The JRC is the Joe Rosenfield '25 Center.  John Stone suggested we call it "Joe's Quarter", but the name never stuck. [3] The phrase "students I know and like" may be redundant.  I like almost every student I know.