I spent all of today writing [1], but I spent none of today [3] writing essays. Yes, that's right, as a faculty member, I have lots of other kinds of writing to do.  So, what did I write? As you might expect, I wrote a variety of email [4] messages.  I wrote to colleagues about summer research.  I wrote to the Dean about summer research. I wrote to the registrar about grades.  I wrote to the Scheme Squad about issues pertaining to CSC 151.  I replied to questions from students.  I sent a general message to one of my classes.  I wrote to a conference chair to report on my work for that conference.  Pretty much normal stuff [5]. I wrote an examination today [6].  Writing good examinations, particularly good take-home examinations, is an interesting challenge.  I need to figure out how much coverage each topic we've covered needs, and how much I can combine topics into individual problems, because dealing with multiple topics can challenge students.  I need to find the right mix of difficulty so that every student can feel confident on some problems, but also so that students are also challenged on some problems.  I consider how much I want problems to teach students [7].  I reflect on other issues that I want to teach, such as style and efficiency.  I think today's exam is reasonable, although there are certainly a few challenging problems [8].  I am, however, having both my colleague and my class mentors look at the exam. While writing the examination, I also wrote a reasonable amount of Scheme  code and documentation.  Some of the Scheme code and documentation is for problems on the exam.  For example, I almost always give a problem with badly formatted, badly named, and badly designed Scheme code and ask students to turn it into something reasonable.  For this exam, I also wrote some sample solutions to a recent assignment, solutions that they will need to modify as part of solving problems on this examination.  And, is the norm, I wrote some solutions to the examination, not only so that I could think  about the difficulty of various problems, but also so that I could add some examples. After spending about four or so hours writing the examination, I wrote a number of meta-reviews.  What are meta-reviews, you may ask?  In some of the conferences for which I review, we have six or so reviewers for each paper and then a discussion.  The meta-review pulls together the reviews and discussion, and provides a final recommendation to the program chairs. I'm not sure why, but these meta-reviews felt like they took more time than normal.  The program chairs also asked me to review reviewers, mostly to identify those who did a particularly nice job or a particularly poor job. Before writing this essay, I finished a few recommendation letters that I needed to write.  There was a point this semester in which I felt ahead on recommendation letters.  Now I feel very far behind. It doesn't help that I get email from students saying "I realize that it's the last minute, but can you write a letter by Tuesday [9]?"  One of the disadvantages of having so many majors and encouraging to pursue so many opportunities is that I get a lot of requests for recommendations. Amazingly, I wrote neither memos nor research notes nor educational materials  today.  Okay, it's not so amazing that I didn't write research notes; research writing tends to get done during breaks.  But I end up writing memos more often than you might expect.  Oh well, I guess some of today's email messages might be considered a less formal form of memo [10]. I also like to write educational materials, if even just my notes for a class.  Oh, that's right!  I'm guest teaching a class tomorrow.  I should  probably write the notes for that class now, as well as the notes for the classes I normally teach.  I should also write some Ruby/Rails code.  We'll see if I have time for that last bit of writing. As Michelle says, "It's good that Sam types fast."  It's also good that I can compose competent text relatively quickly.  I recommend that everyone develop those skills. [1] I'm not sure why, but Grammarly says I should write "I spent all of the today writing" [2]. [2] The emphasis is mine. [3] Well, none of today until now. [4] Email is not a registered trademark of Shiva Ayyadurai. [5] It's "normal" in that I do a lot of administrative communication and communication with students. [6] I know that in some countries "I wrote an examination" means "I took an examination".  In this case, I really did write the questions. [7] Yes, that's right.  I think you learn by solving problems, particularly on take-home examinations. [8] I know that they are challenging because they are variants of problems I have given previously. [9] For those who are reading this at a time other than when I wrote this, it is currently about 8:30 in the evening on Sunday. [10] Grammarly says that I should write "I guess some of the today's email messages might be considered a less formal form of a memo."  I've added emphasis.  I'm getting less and less sure about Grammarly.