About a week ago, I reported on my time log for the second week of spring semester.  In case you've forgotten, the College now seems to care about how I divide my time during the summer [1], so I'm now trying the experiment of recording my time during each week of the academic year. During that week, I spent sixty-six hours on work-related "stuff". I thought that was too much.  During week three of spring semester, I found time to go out to Andi Tracy's "learn about your tastebuds" event and to spend most of a day following Youngest Son to activities.  But I also worked.  A lot.  As far as I can tell, I spent about seventy-five hours on work-related activities.  That's not reasonable. Where did the time go? I spent nearly fourteen hours on activities related to my role as SIGCSE Student Volunteer co-Coordinator.  Most of that was dealing with smelly code [2] or trying to set up a 200+ line spreadsheet of activities that need student volunteers [3]. I spent a bit over ten hours on electronic mail.  That's up two hours from the previous week.  It may be that I was less good about doing specific categories of email in sequence, and so things I previously logged as "student volunteer" or "department" or "CSC 151" were logged as just "email". The amount of time I spent on my classes went down slightly.  I spent over ten hours on CSC 32x and almost eleven on CSC 151.  But that doesn't count the small emails, the office hours, and probably some informal conversations. I spent nearly five hours on research, mostly working on  a presentation. Almost all of the other time was on assorted work or administrative stuff: Meetings, preparing for meetings, paperwork, office hours, and so on and so forth. I spent almost six hours musing.  That's how much I mused the previous week, too [4].  Should I count musing as "work" or "hobby" or ...? For now, I'm counting it as "non-work". I definitely need to find things to cut.  I've been spending way too much time on the Student Volunteer Coordinator role [5].  Fortunately, SIGCSE comes soon and, while I'll spend even more time during SIGCSE working on SV [6] stuff, after the conference my tasks are mostly done [7]. I may also need to unpack what my administrative and work hours are being spent on.  But that's probably a task for another month [8,9]. I should look for a way to spend a bit more time on my classes. I'm guaranteed to spend more time this week: I have a CSC 151 exam out, and that means that I'll be spending much of the weekend grading [11]. I also have the CSC 322 mentors on campus this week and will be spending time with them.  But there are other class-related activities I'd like to be doing, particularly catching up on some past grading and some new prep. Will this week be more reasonable than the last two?  I hope so [12].  Time will tell [14]. [1] Or at least about how I divide my time between activities for which I receive pay.  They may also care about what percentage of my "work" time the paid activities occupy. [2] Software designers talk about "code smells".  Code smells are usually bad.  I may muse about the code smells I dealt with. [3] By the time I got to line 120 or so, I figured out how to automate part of the process.  But some things still had to be done manually.  Then I had to go back and add a bunch of other events that were not in any of the data sources I had to work with. [4] I did not count the musing hours in work hours.  I worked seventy-five hours and mused for six.  In some worlds, that means that I worked for eighty-one hours. [5] I'm trying to decide whether or not to be happy that I did not log the SIGCSE work in December and January.  On one hand, it would be nice to know how much work I really did.  On the other, it would likely also be very sad.  I do know that, to date, I've dealt with about 900 messages related to SIGCSE. [6] SV is short for "Student Volunteer".  But you probably guessed that. [7] Oh. Wait. I think we have a responsibility to report session counts for every conference session.  And, um, tell the registration folks which students actually worked their shifts so that we can refund their registration.  And I should probably rewrite the bad parts of the code now, when it's fresh in my mind, rather than when I'm back in panic mode. [8] Or another musing. [9] What meetings did I do last week?  A PossePlus discussion.  Faculty Fridays.  Faculty meeting (and some prep).  The Faulconer Advisory Committee.  A department meeting.  CS Table.  CS Extras [10].  A few others I won't record in a public forum.  Yeah, my meetings might make a good topic for a broader musing. [10] Does that count if I was presenting?  Since I try to attend each week, I counted it as department work.  I suppose I could have counted it as research time. [11] Six problems per exam.  Five minutes per problem.  Thirty-four exams. Um, that's seventeen hours.  I can probably spend a little bit less.  But there's also some overhead for getting the exams in order, writing an answer key, recording grades, and so on and so forth. [12] It doesn't help that I spent nearly ten hours on SIGCSE SV projects yesterday and today.  My estimate of the total amount of time I will spend on SV activities just keeps going up and up and up. [14] Sam will probably tell, too, but in a future musing.