If I'm not incorrect [1], this musing is number 300 in the series.  I had considered a wide variety of topics for today's musing.  Here are a few. Yesterday, I took a tour of the new Hotel Grinnell, which is still under construction.  I planned to muse about that hotel and the insane energy that Angela Harrington is putting into it, but that was before I realized that this was musing 300.  I'll probably get to it soon. Today at 11:00 a.m., I watched a crane raise the Grinnell Peace Rock. That seemed to be a nice subject for a musing [2].  At lunchtime today, I attended a session on belonging at Grinnell and efforts to help some students better feel like they belong here.  That's a really important topic that I'd like to have the time to reflect on.  Over the weekend, I was looking up information on Oswald Veblen [3] for a potential musing. I hear that there was an interesting CS table discussion today and that the role of ethics in our curriculum came up.  That seems to be a great topic for an extended musing [4].  My CSC 151 students are working on their projects.  I was tempted to muse on those projects, both generally and specifically.  A few of the students have been asking about how to include text in their projects.  I was tempted to make today one of my "use your writing time to prepare class handouts" musings.  I was also tempted to muse about the bash shell for similar reasons [5].  I have to prepare an agenda for tomorrow's department meeting and thought about writing the public portions of that agenda.  I considered writing about the csstudents mailing list.  Earlier this evening, I wrote two extended responses to email messages from prospective students; I considered modifying those.  However, I'd done that recently, and didn't want to do so again.  In any case, I had a wide variety of topics to consider [6]. But before musing, I told myself that I was going to clean out my inbox. After all, I once again reached inbox zero on Sunday, and I wanted to stay there.  It didn't seem too daunting.  I had accumulated about 120 messages today.  I responded to questions from prospective students [7].  I dealt with a few small paperwork issues relating to my class [8].  I threw out a lot of mail from mailing lists.  I answered a few more substantive questions from students and colleagues.  I dealt with some mailing list issues [9].  I handled a variety of registration issues.  I even sent out a few unprompted emails about various issues that I should address.  I filed a few as things to deal with later. By the time I finished dealing with my email, two and a half hours had passed.  I'd like to get to bed at a reasonable hour.  Although my muse was clearly working overtime to help me come up with all of the topics above, she agreed that I needed rest and came up with this topic.  We both realize that we had planned fewer introspective musings.  But sometimes such musings are necessary.  And, hey, I have almost two weeks of topics listed above. Of course, I always have too many topics to muse about.  There are about 150 in my list of possible topics, although I must admit that some are less interesting to me now than they were when I added them to the list.  It's just that I'd like to approach each of those topics seriously and that takes time and energy that I clearly don't have [10].  Perhaps I should rename the collection with the title of today's musing: Too many topics / Too little time. [1] Yay double negatives! [2] Of course, a lot has been written about the Peace Rock, so I'm not sure what I can add, other than a suggestion that it become the symbol of our Peace Studies Program. [3] You can look up info on Veblen, too!  Or you can wait for the musing. [4] Or perhaps multiple musings. [5] We will be talking about bash on Thursday in CSC 282. [6] Nine or so, if I count correctly. [7] Yeah, I just told you that. [8] If I remember correctly, I had announcements to add to the course page, some extra credit to respond to and record, and attendance to record. [9] I also forwarded about three messages to the csstudents mailing list.  There's a reason I've started to refer to myself as "SpamR". [10] I was going to write "time and energy that I don't have right now". However, if I am honest with myself, I will never have sufficient time for all of these topics.