There are some words I have an unhealthy aversion to.  One of them is "relatable".  I cringe, every time I hear it.  "Justin Beaver is so relatable."  "One of the things that makes Donald Trump such a great president is that he is relatable."  "She's so relatable."  "Hilary didn't win because people didn't find her relatable." Its meaning, in common parlance, is unambiguous: "They are relatable" means "They are someone to whom I can relate" [1].  I don't recall it being in common use until recently, although the Google n-gram viewer seems to suggest that it peaked in the late 1970's. I'm generally in favor of words that clarify and simplify.  So why do I hate "relatable", other than the contexts in which I usually hear it [2]? Perhaps it's that it's a nominalization.  I spent enough time working with the Joe Williams approach to writing [3] that I like to hear actors and  actions.  Who relates to the person so described?  Is it the speaker? Is it the speaker suggesting a broader sense of relatability?  "Relatable" obscures. And is "relate" really the appropriate word?  I also don't like hearing "I relate to [insert random pop star]".  I guess it's appropriate; as it means to be connected.  But "I feel connected to [insert random pop star'" feels more powerful to me, as does "I think many people would feel a connection to [insert random pop star]". Those serve as a few core complaints: "Relatable" is a nominalization and therefore causes the speaker/writer to eschew a clear actor and action. "Relate" seems like a weaker word than "connect" or other related words. So yes, I do have reasons to dislike the word. Or maybe it's just that I'm not relatable. My spell checker also doesn't think "relatable" is a word, but it has a fairly limited vocabulary.  It also doesn't like "nominalization", perhaps because it doesn't like seeing me nominalize that word.. [1] Maybe it doesn't.  Maybe it means "They are someone to whom others can relate." [2] I would venture to guess that I hear it most frequently used in relation to pop stars, but perhaps I'm mistaken.  I have heard the Hilary quote, which is perhaps another reason. [3] Exemplified by Chicago's "Little Red Schoolhouse" and a variety of books whose title normally begins Style.