These past few days, I've been traveling.  Usually, when I am traveling, I still have an Internet connection.  This time, I did, too.  However, I did not have an Internet connection that allowed me to ssh into the MathLAN [2].  I find it much harder to write when I don't have access to my normal writing environment.  I can still use vi on my Mac and I also have many of my associated tools installed, but it doesn't feel quite the same.  It doesn't help that my favorite spell checker [3] is not installed on my Mac.  It helps even less that the Mac uses different header files for C, which means that I shouldn't really write essays for my C and Unix course without access to my primary machine [4]. That's not to say that I didn't write.  A lot of my trip involved writing reports, taking notes, and turning my notes into something coherent.  But those were not reports, notes, or other writings that I could post.  And, once I was finished with a day of those writings and associated work, it was hard to get up the energy to write one of these essays [5].   It's also hard to write when I know that it's not going to be posted immediately.  The first day, I sent my essay to my family.  The next three days, I just sketched my essays or thought about topics. But now I'm back.  I've put the sketches into essay form.  Once I finish some (minimal) editing, I'll be releasing five at once [6]. I need to figure out a way to keep my muse engaged the next time I go away and lose access.  Oh well; I don't think that's for awhile.  It's good to be back. [1] No, you should not take that title literally.  I am not going out into the street to write on the cement, concrete, blacktop, or whatever.  Not even if Martha and the Vandellas are there. [2] "ssh into the MathLAN" is technobabble for "connect to the computer on which I write these essays". [3] "spell" on the command line [4] Upon reflection, I could have worked on the virtual Linux desktop on my Mac.  Sam smacks his own head in disbelief. [5] My muse was working overtime helping me with the regular writing. She also did not have the energy to push me into particularly interesting areas. [6] Why five?  One for each day I was away.  This essay is the fourth of those.  But I sketched this one, too, particularly since I was returning at about 11pm.  So they will all get released the day after I return, and I'll need an essay for that day.